## Installation
It is build using python on Lasagne-Theano for deep learning and Librosa for feature extraction.

Requires installing Lasagne-Theano (http://lasagne.readthedocs.org/en/latest/user/installation.html) and Librosa (https://github.com/librosa/librosa). For further details in how we are using Lasagne-Theano, see this tutorial: http://lasagne.readthedocs.org/en/latest/user/tutorial.html.

Lasagne is already in a /src folder, to install Theano do:
> sudo pip install --upgrade https://github.com/Theano/Theano/archive/master.zip

Dependencies: pandas, numpy and scipy.

## Folders structure
Root folders:
- `./data`: with audio, groundtruth and all intermediate files (spectrograms, patches and train/test results).
- `./src`: with core and static scripts.

Default data folders:
- `./data/audio/`: with the raw audio files.
- `./data/index/`: with pre-processed *(i)* 'index_file' and *(ii)* 'gt_file'.

When running the scripts throughout the pipeline, the following folders will be created:
- `./data/spectrograms/`
- `./data/exp_setup/`
- `./data/patches/`
- `./data/train/`
- `./data/test/`

## Scipts pipeline
`spectrograms.py` > `exp_setup.py` > `patches.py` > `train.py` > `test.py`
- `spectrograms.py`: computes spectrograms.
- `exp_setup.py`: splits data in train, val, test. Requires: previous run of 'spectrograms.py'.
- `patches.py`: computes patches and normalizes the data. Requires: previous run of 'exp_setup.py'.
- `train.py`: trains a deep learning model defined in 'builid_architecture.py'. Requires: previous run of 'patches.py'.
- `test.py`: evaluates how the trained model performs. Requires: previous run of 'train.py'.

## Steps for reproducing our results
1. Download the dataset. See: http://mirg.city.ac.uk/codeapps/the-magnatagatune-dataset and https://github.com/keunwoochoi/magnatagatune-list 
2. Copy the MTT datset to `./data/audio/MagnaTagATune/` in its original format: 16 folders, '0' to '9' and then 'a' to 'f'. It will look like: `./data/audio/MagnaTagATune/a/`, `./data/audio/MagnaTagATune/2/`, etc.
3. Run `spectrograms.py`. 
4. Run `exp_setup.py`. 
5. Run `patches.py`.
6. Configure `train.py`: 
    1. Set `config['patches']` to be the folder generated by `patches.py`, ie: `patches/patches_dieleman_setup_eusipco2017_187_logC_elementWise_memory_1489752607/`. 
    2. Choose the architecture by setting `config['type']` to: `smallSquared` or `proposed` or `proposed2`.
7. Run `train.py`. If you want to use your GPU, you probably want to run the following: THEANO_FLAGS=mode=FAST_RUN,device=gpu,floatX=float32 python test_2.py
8. Configure `test.py`: set test_params['model_name'] to be the model created by `train.py`, ie: `dieleman_setup_eusipco2017_proposed2_v0_210270563616880246637098465086143809559` - without the extension. 
9. Run `test.py`.
